[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Hey.
I'm Ashleigh Sergeant,
and welcome to "Everyday
Enlightenment," your
go-to show for tips
on how to be more
conscious in the midst
of your busy modern life.
Community is a word we
hear now more than ever
as the digital age rapidly
increases our ability
to communicate and connect with
one another across the globe.
The rise of online and
social media communities
has exploded with an estimated
2.5 billion people currently
using social media.
This desire to feel
connected to one
another is an undeniable
trait of humanity, one
that I truly believe
has the power
to heal many of the
sufferings of this world.
How do these expressions of
community help us to heal?
And what can we do
in our modern world
to support this ancient
and necessary cornerstone
of human connection?
My guest today is Mary Clare
Sweet, a longtime yoga teacher
here on Gaia.
M. C. is an activist,
businesswoman,
and superpowered entrepreneur.
She owns and runs five
companies, all of which
focus on building community.
These include five yoga
studios in Nebraska,
as well as a superfoods cafe.
With her mother
and her team, they
run an annual gathering
in the heartland.
Mary Clare, thanks so much
for being here with me today.
>> Thank you so much, Ashleigh.
I'm so happy to be here.
>> It's great to be with you
and to talk about community.
And you're such an amazing
leader in the yoga world
around this concept of community
and all the different shapes
and forms that it
takes because it can
take many different iterations.
And it's not just one aspect
or one expression of community
that we need to really,
I think, help us heal
and bring us together.
>> Absolutely.
And I think it
should be that way.
There should be lots of
different communities
that intersect with each other.
All of these amazing
circles of humans
coming together and very
organic, very life-giving, very
living entity is community.
>> Absolutely.
I mean, it's been talked
about more recently,
I think, in modern culture,
this concept of tribe,
this concept of community, this
concept of finding a resonance,
finding people that are
not only like-minded
but are like-hearted, which
is a term I really love,
that we really resonate
with one another
around different interests.
We've seen it manifest in pop
culture around like sports,
around food, around different
dance, around music.
And this is not something that
is new to our modern culture.
It has its own expression
in modern culture.
But I think one of the amazing
things about social media--
and I have all my plenty of
negative things to say around
social media--
and there's also a lot of
really beautiful things about it
that with this new,
advancing technology,
we actually have the
ability to see and even
feel through information
online some of the cultures
and the communities and the
values that have really been
instilled in humanity forever.
>> Yeah.
>> Really.
>> Well, and I think
you hit it on the head.
Like, we feel a certain way.
There's a vibration
inside of us.
And where that vibration
becomes activated
or where it comes from,
we don't really know.
But all of a sudden,
we're feeling something.
And then we look out
and see, wow, maybe
that person is feeling this too,
and that person is feeling this
too.
And over the past
hundreds of years,
we haven't had this ability
to really reach out past
where we were born
and where we grew up.
And today, we get
to look out into,
you know what, I sometimes call
the eighth chakra because it's
like we're tapping into this
global web of connection
and going, you
feel this way too?
You feel this way too?
Well, let's come together.
And, of course, music
is an incredible way
to do that because
it is vibration.
But I think that yoga
and consciousness,
seeking and pursuits--
that's a feeling too.
I mean, how many
yoga teachers have
you asked or how many times have
you been asked what is yoga?
And every time, there's
a different answer.
No matter who is asking it
or every time I answer it,
it's different because
it's a vibration.
It's not just a
concrete, static thing.
It's living.
And that's what
community is to me.
It's growing.
It's changing.
It's a vibration.
>> Well, one of the things I
love from the really essential
teachings of not just yoga,
but of Ayurveda, of Buddhism,
of a lot of the Eastern
traditions is that the true
reality is that we are one,
is that we are all connected,
and that suffering and the
myriad of ways that suffering
manifests in the world is at
its very deepest level caused
by this lack of seeing and
understanding that we are all
connected.
>> Right.
And that separation, that
idea that we are separate,
comes from fear.
And fear just comes from pain.
So babies are born
into this earth
and, they don't see separation.
They see that unity
consciousness.
However, as we learn how to be
a human in our own families,
we start to see, oh,
this is my family.
This is what we do.
This is what my
grandparents did.
This is what their parents--
and it creates this
little wall of separation.
And one thing that you and
I have spoken a lot about
is the word compassion and how
compassion utterly dissolves
that wall of separation.
When you can sit with someone
else in their own suffering
and you can feel
your own and accept
where you are in
that moment, that's
where the unification is.
It's not going, like, you
have this whole journey
of your life, and where
you are today, we are one.
It's going, I see you.
I know that your journey has
been filled with ups and downs.
Mine has too, and let's
be there together.
>> Yeah.
And the reality that
that connection brings
is a sense of happiness,
a sense of joy.
And it's not this superficial
kind of, oh, yeah,
it's just so happy when
we gather together.
Like, that happens sometimes.
But we also-- and
a lot of things
are built around gathering
together for celebration.
But we also gather together
for the celebration
of a life that is passed
or the mourning of a life
that has passed or
the coming together
for a revolution
against a belief system
that isn't working anymore.
>> Yeah.
And that remembrance
is a return.
It's coming back to the truth of
your nature, which is presence.
Presence is the eternity.
Eternity is right now.
Eternity has no history.
Eternity has no future.
Eternity is here.
And when we're present, we
truly make that connection.
And in regard to the
word happiness and joy
and feeling those good
vibes, it's only sustainable
if you're present.
If you're constantly
chasing after something
or looking for
some new pleasure,
that's only going to
feed the fire with fire.
When you recognize in
the present moment,
really, right here,
this is eternity,
that's sustainable happiness.
And that's sustainable joy.
>> Yeah.
Really being able to--
and this is one of
the things I feel yoga
as a practice has really given
me the ability to really hear
and the ability to really listen
and the ability to really see
and the joy that we get from
actually really seeing someone
else or really
hearing someone else
and really being seen
and really heard.
And that comes from this
concept of community.
We see it, and it can
manifest in interesting ways.
But we see it in some of
the social media things,
like now everybody has this
ability to share their voice.
And, sure, there can be
shadow sides and things
around that, which is why I'm
always all for online community
and in-person
community because there
are different aspects
to what we show up
and what kind of presence
and what kind of quality
we bring to that
type of community.
But something that you
and I were talking about
before that I love
is that community
itself has the ability
to make us stronger,
to actually fortify us,
to raise our vibration.
And what does that mean?
>> Well, when you are in a
situation where you are fearful
or you are scared
or on the defensive,
like you're prepared
with some argument,
or maybe it's this identity
that you're wearing like armor,
you can physically test
your muscles and show that
they're not as strong as when
you arrive into the present
moment with openness.
The word vulnerability--
we perceive vulnerability
means I'm open and
vulnerable to an attack.
But, actually, vulnerability
is like the most pure
and profound element of strength
that a human can experience.
And when we arrive
to the present
with that vulnerability, our
muscles in muscle testing
is actually stronger.
Our immune system is
actually stronger.
Our brain is functioning
at a higher cognitive
level than when we come with
this preconceived armor.
And we can feel it
amongst each other
even when we arrive at
these yoga festivals
or we're watching
a video on Gaia.
And all of a sudden,
we're like, ahh.
You feel like you can
open and be vulnerable.
That's your true strength.
So in a community, when we have
a lot of people coming together
like this in that
vulnerable space,
we actually become a
stronger human species.
>> I love that.
It's so powerful.
And in that in and
of itself is healing.
Just the ability to be able to
have a reflection with someone
else, a real, like, oh, wow.
I feel this way.
You've felt that way too to
really be heard is so healing.
And, also, it doesn't
always feel as good,
but one of the beautiful
things about really developing
community over time
in my experience
and being vulnerable,
like you said,
is when you can say to
me like, hey, Ashleigh,
you're being really
stubborn about this.
You're not hearing me.
You're inappropriate
or some pattern.
>> Well, I think in
some situation too,
we can as conscious leaders and
as conscious friends and family
members even just--
I don't know if
you've noticed this.
But when my daughter
or a good friend
or someone in my
family or even myself,
but when we're being
really stubborn
and on that, the more I just
sit and maybe don't even
need to say anything but just
sit and listen and just bear
witness to them
going through that,
usually, three or
four minutes later,
they're kind of like, oh.
And maybe this isn't
such a big deal.
And that's such a
powerful part of community
too is just the ability for
you in my moment of weakness
to be my security
guard at the gate
and just to stand there while
I move through my process
and really heal myself.
>> Yeah, and all of the infinite
ways that these things can be
expressed is the healing
power of community--
is the healing power of
community and is so, I believe,
essential because
we can't heal alone.
We can heal certain things.
We need to heal ourselves
and really be with ourselves.
But it's when we step
back out into the world
and when we are living
and breathing and being
that the evolution and the
healing really happens.
>> Yes.
Yes.
And that's then the joy.
That is the joy that you can
put forth into your service
to our world.
Your greatest gift, each of
our greatest gifts and talents
we were brought to
this planet with
is what we were meant
to give to the world.
And when we can give
those gifts with great joy
and a high vibration and
feeling really strong in that,
that is what evolves
us as a community.
>> Yeah.
And this is what you
were talking about
before that creates legacy is
really we all have this desire
to fulfill whatever it is we
are here to do in this life.
We all have the desire to--
a question that someone
asked me one time.
I'll never forget the
first time this was asked,
was, when you leave this body
or when you pass, how do you
want to be remembered?
And it's such a powerful
question to contemplate.
And I really believe that it is
to feel that we have lived life
to its fullest, to feel that
we have experienced connection
and--
>> What's your answer?
>> I know my answer is I don't--
my answer is that I really
hope that people will say--
because that's what was
the question was like,
what will people say about
you and your legacy--
that she helped and
inspired me to grow
or others to grow and to heal
because it has been my mission
and my experience
is to want to heal
and to grow and to feel
empowered, to know I
have the ability to do it--
it's all within
me-- and then to be
able to help others
do the same thing.
And then we as a community
help empower legacy,
help to empower great beings.
And doesn't mean we have to
have done these great feats
or be famous people.
It's were we kind?
>> Well, communities
with unconditional love
at their core are the legacy
that I want the next wave
of humans to be
able to step into.
We have over the
last 200, 300, 400
years in Western
colonialism been very,
like, these are the walls.
This is what I'm fighting for.
And, of course, every
step along the way
needed to happen so you
and I could be sitting here
speaking to millions of
humans all over the planet.
And because we have
this opportunity
and we have this
platform, our job
is to create communities that
the next wave of humans coming
in can step into and go, oh,
this is how we do things,
where we are all in a symbiotic
relationship with our planet
and each other and the
elderly and the young people.
We're all working together.
And it's not that kind of
stereotypical like we're just
going to sit around and kumbaya.
No, we get to go on
a great adventure.
And we get to create
new innovation,
and we get to brainstorm
and create brilliant ideas.
But it's all done in
cooperation with one another,
not in a race against
somebody else.
>> I love that.
And I'd love for you to
share with us a couple of--
you really embody this
energy of high vibes
and energy of connection.
And you're obviously
doing that and living it
in entrepreneurship, which is
amazing and powerful to really
weave that into business.
And so if you can tell us
some really powerful ways
to do that in daily life,
that would be amazing.
>> Yes.
Thank you.
I would love to.
So there are three
essential tips
that I'd love to share
with you about how
to start to connect with
others and build your own
or connect with an
existing community.
The first step is courage.
Courage comes from your heart.
It comes from the word
cor, which means heart.
And your courage comes
first in listening.
So listen to what people
are saying around you.
Listen to what people are
saying on the message boards
and where they're coming from
and what their journey has
held for them.
And then have the courage
to speak your truth.
Have the courage to say
what you mean and mean
what you say because your
consciousness in every moment
is arriving at the perfect
place of your truth.
So listen and then speak
and do so with courage.
Number two is acceptance.
You have to accept where you
are right here, right now.
Whatever moment you're
in, whatever yoga clothes
you have or don't have, or
whatever state your life is in,
accept where you are right now.
That's the most powerful
thing that you can do.
And once you've
done that, you'll
be able to accept
everyone else where they
are as well in your
workplace, in your family,
in your neighborhood, and
online on social media,
just being able to
accept that everybody
is in a different place.
That acceptance starts with you.
And number three is inclusivity.
We have a job as
conscious beings
to include people from radically
different walks of life.
These start with conversations
that are like bridges.
But we can't just
rely on this idea
that we're going to include
everyone that comes our way.
We have to go out
and invite people
from different communities.
So I really think
that inclusivity
starts with stepping out
of your own comfort zone
and going to find people that
might be different than you.
That might be a
different organization
in your community or a
different yoga studio,
or maybe you go walk or
run a 5K or something.
But step outside of
your comfort zone
and include and invite
people around you.
Start with courage.
Move to acceptance
and then inclusivity.
>> That was amazing.
I love it.
>> Thank you.
>> I mean, it's so important to
make it practical and grounded.
And we can do it every
moment and every day.
Thank you so much for being
here and for sharing your wisdom
and your authenticity.
>> Thank you, Ashleigh.
It's a pleasure.
>> Always.
Thank you so much for joining
us, and I'll see you next time.
[MUSIC PLAYING]